---
title: 10-for-10
subtitle: The ultimate brainstorming exercise!
date: 2020-06-24T15:27:10.904Z
authors:
  - julieta-varsano
area: discovery-loop-outcomes
perspectives: []
icon: ""
jumbotron: ""
people: Min. 2
time: 10min
difficulty: easy
participants: []
---
# What is it?

One of the most common types of workshops that every designer, PM or consultant will have to run in their lives is the plain and simple Brainstorming Workshop. There are literally billions of Brainstorming workshop styles out there you can choose from… But, many of them are completely broken because of one big thing: They end up being big, messy discussions where the loudest person wins... or where the boss wins. This is because many Brainstorming techniques don't take human-nature, implied hierarchies or even varied personalities into consideration.

The 10 for 10 workshop helps teams to think quickly and objectively and be focussed with their prioritisation. It's lightweight, fun and super useful! The only thing you need to start a 10 for 10 session is a topic. Since you can use this method to brainstorm almost anything, there are very few limitations, still, it's always better to give some examples: 

\- Generating ideas for a company event 

\- Generating ideas for new features for an app 

\- Generating headline ideas for a new landing page 

\- Generating ideas to improve your office environment 

# How to use it?

All you have to do as the facilitator of a 10 for 10 session is turn the topic you want to Brainstorm into a "How Might We" phrased challenge. This is very simple. Essentially you are rephrasing whatever challenge or topic you have into something that is actionable!

Here's a step-by-step guide by AJ&Smart on how to execute a successful 10-for-10 session:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/OJ2guxkhvKU" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Is there something you've been stuck on? Why don't you take it for a test run? Try it out with your team or client! It only takes 10 minutes to see how powerful something like this can be in practice!

# More resources:

[The Workshopper Playbook](https://www.workshopperplaybook.com/ordernow) by Jonathan Courtney